Kaylee Swenson: Okay? first, I would love if you would both state your name and your positions within the Faa.
Brian Rushforth: So I'm Brian. Rush forth. I'm the manager of the Innovation Division which is in the Strategic
Management Directorate of the Commercial Space Transportation Line of business of the Federal aviation administration.
Brian Verna: I'm Brian Verna. I'm a senior adviser to the Chief of staff of the office of Commercial Space Transportation at the Faa.
Kaylee Swenson: All right. So my research, as you probably gathered through my emails, is primarily concerned with public opinion and the interaction between public opinion and these agencies. Specifically, agencies who deal with more of like space.
Kaylee Swenson: It's easy for public opinion to be formed about like the post office, because they see someone who delivers their mail every day. But these agencies that are dealing with these kinds of concepts that the average public will never likely interact with. I think it's an interesting phenomenon to see how they engage public opinion
Kaylee Swenson: and how they do so intentionally, or how they view public opinion as influencing what they do. because at the end of the day. It's still a democracy, and you're still working for the government. So I think that there's
Kaylee Swenson: There's a phenomenon there that I don't think people
Kaylee Swenson: take very seriously. But I feel like there's definitely something interesting there. So a lot of these questions are going to be about pog opinion. you just answer them from your perspective. It's okay. If there's not super obvious, clear answers, since I know neither of you are like, that's your main focus is public opinion in the agency. So just, whatever you have for me will still be greatly appreciated and very useful.
Kaylee Swenson: so how do you feel like public opinion
Kaylee Swenson: could be characterized about your department. So how does the public feel about your department?
Brian Rushforth:  I say, to a great extent. if you go to the public.
Brian Rushforth: And you talk about space
Brian Rushforth: the first thing they think of as NASA And there is a very positive NASA has a very positive.
Brian Rushforth: I'm gonna pull out my Mba stuff. And you know they are huge brand equity
Brian Rushforth: for space. I mean, NASA owns the space brand equity
Brian Rushforth: and it's and it's very positive for the most part, right? I mean, you know, it's who doesn't like watching the launch, you know, or watching.
Brian Rushforth: you know, pictures of outer space, or, you know, dating myself, Carl Sagan. And you know.
Brian Rushforth: you know Neil de Gross Tyson nowadays, and all that other kind of stuff. So
Brian Rushforth: we start from a place that is pretty
Brian Rushforth: positive in the public side.
Brian Rushforth: we are a small organization, and I think people just aren't as aware.
Brian Rushforth: you know we do. We have had, media can social media outreach and that kind of stuff
Brian Rushforth:  and doing, you know, commercial space. But I think a lot of
Brian Rushforth: you know, a lot of people don't really associate commercial space. And, Faa.
Brian Rushforth: they'll associate NASA and Spacex not the least, because guess what Spacex and Blue and Ula all have contracts with NASA for so you know, it reinforces.
Brian Rushforth: You know, most most people are not paying rapt attention to the inner workings of a very small organization
Brian Rushforth: that, nevertheless has a huge authority.
Brian Rushforth: when it comes to the licensing of launches and re-entries for commercial space operations.
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah, Mr. Vernon, do you have anything to add to that?
Brian Verna: I would. I would say, we don't
Brian Verna: overall. I agree with it.
Brian Verna: You're you're kind of distant. Oh, you can't here. Oh, that's much better. Okay, so I was, gonna say, I agree with pretty much everything you said, Brian and I just want to add the bit about
Brian Verna: where we get our authority from.
Brian Verna: and it's from our legislative counterparts. So those are people that are put into position.
Brian Verna: So to manage government basically managed an executive branch which we we work for. So so the public is involved at that angle their constituents are represented through those representatives that right the off, the the legislation that gives us
Brian Verna: our legal authority to do things. So that's another aspect. That's the legal aspect that's in influenced by public opinion to some degree.
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah, I definitely agree. And that actually brings me to one of the questions that I was, gonna ask later, but this is perfect time for it. So with that authority coming from the legislative branch.
Kaylee Swenson: do you feel like
Kaylee Swenson: engaging public opinion in a positive way, can connect to
Kaylee Swenson: stability of Congressional funding
Kaylee Swenson: like, do you see a connection there between keeping positive public opinion and keeping Congress happy? Essentially
Brian Rushforth: because what happens when the public is not happy, and by public I mean not just.
Brian Rushforth: You know, John and Jane DOE. And you know. Missoula.
Brian Rushforth: the public includes the Ceos
Brian Rushforth: of every launch and
Brian Rushforth: re-entry applicants and operator.
Brian Rushforth: The public is. you know, the people that talk to reporters who then publish stories
Brian Rushforth: who complain to and write letters to Congress.
Brian Rushforth: so there is a direct
Brian Rushforth:  correlation or not correlation. There's a direct line between
Brian Rushforth:  Congressional interest and
Brian Rushforth: not so much to find that we haven't really been threatened with funding because of public opinion. In fact, we've been gained a lot of money, because well, again, I guess from public opinion, like launch operators and others. we we need. We've needed more people and resources. And Congress has been providing that. So we can actually keep up
with the pace of new entrance and and an increased
Brian Rushforth: operational cadences of the spacexes blues
Brian Rushforth: versions, and and the others that are coming that are all new and coming in. you know. So look, we don't.
Brian Rushforth: You know the faa tends to be
relatively static, I mean Faa is is in many fortunate ways, no one. There's no partisanship against
Brian Rushforth: aviation, safety, and aerospace safety.
Brian Rushforth: There's no one to say. You know what we don't need safe planes. We don't need safe airports. We can let people just die. Nobody says that, no matter what end of the aisle you're on.
Brian Rushforth: And so we're relatively stable compared to say other areas like, if you're
Brian Rushforth: you know the EPA or your the
Brian Rushforth: you know, parts of the Justice Department, or whatever is, is involving a partisan
Brian Rushforth:  difference. So we tend to be fairly stable in that regard. Now, Congress with. If everything is going fine.
Brian Rushforth: Congress generally doesn't take an interest or or they're they're taking an interest in terms of you know, helping out from an economic perspective, or if they have a space port in their particular district or state
Brian Rushforth: and there's a lot of interest in that, because that means jobs and all that kind of stuff.
Brian Rushforth: but the negative interest can also have an effect as well. We hear about that. we hear either directly from the public, because we have.
Brian Rushforth: we have not only from a safety perspective.
Brian Rushforth: We have a mechanisms like the administrative hotline that people can call in an anonymously
Brian Rushforth: leave tips or allegations that we investigate, or on some kind of safety related. item, there's the Ig for waste, fraud and abuse but there's also the big, probably the biggest
Brian Rushforth: place the public plays is in the Nepa process.
Brian Rushforth: So that so when you're talking launches, or you're talking a new space port, or you're talking something. Operations happening where they haven't happened before. there's a Nepa process that by law, we have to do certain outreach. they launch. The applicant has to do certain outreach where there's a space board or a or a launch operator
Brian Rushforth: and the and the public has an opportunity to weigh in
Brian Rushforth: and comment on all of those. And if there, if the public is not satisfied with our decisions. They they complain to Congress, they file lawsuits. you know they. They use the the levers and the mechanisms of government that are available to the public to attempt to address the agreements.
Kaylee Swenson: Okay? And would you say that
Kaylee Swenson: obviously there are places where you are required to let the public have input, would you say that input does ultimately impact the agencies, either priorities or even their ultimate actions that they take?
Brian Rushforth: Well, I mean, we. So we follow the process. So yeah, if there's if there's inputs
Brian Rushforth: you know, if there's allegations, if there's, you know, we have to respond to the comments and not I. I forgot the main. You know thing, we're a regulator. And so we put out rule making and advisory circular. That's another area
Brian Rushforth: that. The public has, an opportunity to provide input on. So like our most recent regional part 4 50, which was a a massive rewrite
Brian Rushforth: of 4 former far parts on on launches
Brian Rushforth: launch operations that we consolidated into one rag
Brian Rushforth: So
Brian Rushforth: rings are a massive opportunity
Brian Rushforth: to provide input whether you're again John or Jane Q. Public, whether you are a actual operator in the industry, whether you are a lobbyist, whether you are a nonprofit group that's associated with say, environmental concerns. Everyone has an opportunity to provide input on those. do we
Brian Rushforth: change priorities?
Brian Rushforth: I'm not sure. I'm not sure that's quite. We don't change priorities per say, if there was anything we would change, it would be changing whether or not I mean all these comments and everything aren't so much in terms of the prioritization of, say, we're taking on Spacex or looking at super heavy or looking at starship, or.
Brian Rushforth: you know, blue or whatever it's more for that particular decision.
Brian Rushforth:  on on how we I issue a a license, or need a determination, or
any any of those they they tend to be more on the
Brian Rushforth: for lack of a better term, tactical individual actions that we take.
Brian Rushforth: we have
Brian Rushforth: as part of. I guess this would be considered public to, because it's not part of the faa we do have, what's called The Faa has advisory councils
Brian Rushforth: made up of representatives of of various areas of industry.
and we have one for commercial space
Brian Rushforth: called the commercial space, Transportation and Advisory Council. Come, stack and there is a whole set of statute around. How you do that, how it works.
Brian Rushforth: transparency. You know all the rules around how how to how to run, and those those councils are, in fact. you know we do. We do take them very seriously, and they will provide
Brian Rushforth: well based their advisory right? We'll ask them questions. What do you think of X,
or we have these kind of situations coming up in the future.
Brian Rushforth: What! What's your opinion on how we should attempt to meet them? Meet these challenges.
Brian Rushforth: and so they will provide a set of formalized recommendations. that that we we may or may not take.
Brian Rushforth: but they are an opportunity. probably the Advisory Councils are the biggest public ones. And of course, if there's. you know, with you, and cry from the public on something that it filters through Congress and the White House and
Brian Rushforth: all that, then that can lead to action to. So I don't know if that answers the question, but it's sort of the
Brian Rushforth: we're we're not the whim of public opinion per se.
Brian Rushforth: But we do. We do clearly have defined
Brian Rushforth: areas and opportunities for a variety of stakeholders to provide. Input.
Brian Verna: Yeah, thank you.
Brian Verna: just clarify the Nep as the National Environmental Policy Act.
Brian Verna: And that's implemented by the Council on environmental quality. So just like us. They have, no authority to set regulations
Brian Verna: So we have to comply with those regulations. And those are environmental focused. And so what Brian was saying is.
Brian Verna: we provide a draft programmatic environmental assessment of the impact to this area that has a launch or re-entry. And we engage with this local folks to
Brian Verna: to get their input on it.
Brian Verna: but that's
Brian Verna: based on someone else's regulations. And then Brian touched on our own regulations, which we can set through our legislative authorities which we talked about.
Brian Verna: But we have to follow the Administrative Procedures Act which
Brian Verna: governs public notice
Brian Verna: input and comment. one of the things I will note
Brian Verna: you.
Brian Verna: We take seriously all comments. and we address all comments through these role, making actions where we set our rules. but
Brian Verna: the ones that will tip the scale if you will or have the most impact is one that is data driven. one that is based on
Brian Verna: on on data. what? What we've seen a lot of, you know the high profile cases. You'll get a lot of people commenting, oh.
Brian Verna: this export of that, or what you know, things like that that doesn't really do. You can have all the emotion and feeling you want.
Brian Verna: But you need to sit down and actually think about what you want to put in. So so we do take all comments seriously. But we do.
Brian Verna: makes some changes based on
Brian Verna: actual data. So
Brian Verna: if you're like as a launch provider that's got real skin in the game and provide actual information. And we will consider that heavily. But if you're just making a comment, saying, I don't agree with that.
Brian Verna: Well.
Brian Verna: thanks.
Brian Verna: We have one comment comment, or to sent it. Okay.
Brian Verna: so. And the other is is other political. I mean, we're we're
Brian Rushforth: our authority for and in our rules that we use to evaluate
Brian Rushforth: and our internal processes we use to evaluate.  You know. For example, we we get a lot of
It's come up every couple of years. The Turks that
Brian Rushforth: satellite launch. Well, there's a bunch of
Brian Rushforth: Armenian Associated groups.
Brian Rushforth: who Don't want us to approve the license? Well, we don't.
Brian Rushforth: Our. Our. Our authority is is wrapped around
Brian Rushforth: safety to the uninvolved public of the launch operation itself. Not whether or not
Brian Rushforth: that payload is politically acceptable to a group.
Brian Rushforth: It is we we purely have to evaluate on safety. So yes, they provide input there. And
Brian Rushforth: all this other stuff. But it's
Brian Rushforth: there's nothing in our regulations about, you know, the political side. That's really not what we do. our job is to make determinations as to whether or not the license is going to be safe for the public or not.
Kaylee Swenson: Okay. So both of you have kind of alluded to this idea that there are people who are much more informed than the mass public
Kaylee Swenson: and they still count as like a public opinion. Would you say that that group who's more closer to the issue and more knowledgeable, has a different view of either your department or the Faa than the mass public would.
Brian Rushforth: Yes.
Brian Rushforth: absolutely. Those are your launch operators
Brian Rushforth: intimately familiar with. They're intimately familiar with the regulations they're intimately familiar with how we do business. They're intimately aware of how our decisions can affect
Brian Rushforth: them.
Brian Rushforth:  as well. And also there's other stakeholders that aren't necessarily the public, but that we also respond to which is our intergovernmental partners. you know, Dod.
plays a safety role as well, because so many launches occur on Federal ranges.
Brian Rushforth: Specifically the Kate. So they have a huge hand. and
Brian Rushforth: in and say in into the input of of what we do how we do. So we work very closely with them, you know. So, for example.
Brian Rushforth:  the
Brian Rushforth: Csvg acronym, because I keep going with Brian. The merged the emergency group all the time. The So there's common standards working group. Thank you. The common standards working group is an intergovernmental organization that gets together and meets very regularly between NASA the Faa and Dod to come up with standards on Federal ranges, and how we evaluate launches?
Brian Rushforth: so that we are, you know we we are not siloed in making decisions that inadvertently affects you know, a, a a Federal range in the operations on Federal users, on by NASA or Dod, and vice versa. That's not NASA and Dod don't want to impose
Brian Rushforth: such restrictions that it inadvertently shuts down commercial operations
Brian Rushforth: as well. So those those kinds of
Brian Rushforth: you know. And you're gonna find that that kind of in any kind of regulatory
Brian Rushforth: environment. Right? There's the people who are really, really knowledgeable about what you do, what? How you do it? the rules, because it really affects them.
Brian Rushforth:  and so there's, you know, there's a huge self interest in in knowing
Brian Rushforth: But But again, unless
Brian Rushforth: you know, we're not like the Faa, where, if you go fly! You're touching parts of the Faa like your traffic.
Brian Rushforth: you know, or that the fact that everything you get on board and touch in a aircraft
Brian Rushforth: has been certificated by the Faa to include the pilots. the mechanics.
Brian Rushforth: the flight attendants, the manufacturers, the manufacturers of the parts, the schools that trained all these. They're all certificate.
Brian Rushforth: So the public touches to the point. Now there's almost, you know, there's an expectation.
Brian Rushforth: you know. No one should die
Brian Rushforth: ever on a commercial flight in the United States, right?
Brian Rushforth: And that's the result of
Brian Rushforth: decades of regulations and working with the industry cooperatively
Brian Rushforth: to come up with solutions to to safety problems. it's a different world. Most people don't flying space
Brian Rushforth: on commercial things. Most most members of the public aren't doing this. I mean, they're watching the occasional watches. They're seeing the satellites of, you know the starlinks.
you know, they're gonna see the stuff on, you know, going to the moon, and eventually to Mars
Brian Rushforth: Space International Space Station. They, you know, they see those, but those are much more esoteric. Not not day to day and you know, tends not to. Really. Our our stuff really hasn't ended in any real disaster. We we expect a certain level of failure
Brian Rushforth: but from the Faa's perspective, if a rocket fails but it fails in an area and in a manner we were expecting.
Brian Rushforth: then great. Everything worked according to plan cause. Now, if a 7, 37 fails.
Brian Rushforth: everyone's all over it.
Brian Rushforth: Everyone's all over that, because we've actually certificated that aircraft to be safe for flying for the flying public.
Brian Rushforth: We don't certificate launch of vehicles. We are just focused on that. The the flying part of the not involved public
Brian Rushforth: is, is, in fact, safe from errant debris or or whatever
Brian Verna: to carry that to the
Brian Verna: folks that we share the building with the aviation folks. A lot of them don't know what we do in commercial space. which is.
Brian Verna: it's shocking. But it's not because I came from the aviation side, and I didn't know what they did. Now I'm here.
Brian Verna: recently, or our
Brian Verna: our associate administrator for commercial space transportation met with
Brian Verna: European
Brian Verna: counterparts. But their aviation counterparts and they thought.
Brian Verna: doesn't NASA do that? So? Yes, to answer your question, Kaylee. The the companies that do business with us know us the best. They know what we're our mission is, they know what
Brian Verna: what we do and how it affects them. Most members of the public don't even any aviation people
Brian Verna: don't. And then, of course, the European side. They don't do as much launch, but they're trying to get there, Germany said. They want to start one have their first launch in the next year. So Spain is very interested. they're coming on board. There's only like 6 countries that regularly launch
Brian Verna: so internationally.
Brian Verna: I don't think we're known what we do. they probably just think it's oh, it's the space, it it's NASA.
Brian Verna: But yeah.
Kaylee Swenson: yeah, And with your specific positions in
Kaylee Swenson: being in commercial space instead of just the faa
Kaylee Swenson: you deal with companies such as spacex blue origin, like you've mentioned, and in those times,
Kaylee Swenson: the literature refers to them as like times of crisis. But in those times where things don't go as planned something fails in a way that was not quite expected, or it was worrisome. Do you feel like public opinion plays a role in how that is handled or moving forward? That public opinion isn't impacted by that at all.
Brian Rushforth: My my biggest fear is that because we are part of the Faa. and because the pop we have been so successful as an agency
Brian Rushforth: and safety aviation safety.
Brian Rushforth: that
Brian Rushforth: when someone or a group of people dies on a. on a, on a, on some kind of launch vehicle, the Iss, or whatever
Brian Rushforth: the level of it, you know the the expectation will be we should regulate. So that doesn't have again. And the fact of the matter is is that we're kind of in a area of where
Brian Rushforth: you know, aviation was in, say, the twenties thirties, maybe.
Brian Rushforth:  which didn't have nearly the level of regulation. And also, you know, had a level of risk along with just the you know, the the, you know, looking at my background. you know, we have had decades of regulations about survivability on board commercial aircraft, you know. We, you know, lighted lighted dial lights. you know, flamers were flame retardant materials on the
Brian Rushforth: on the seats, a whole host of different survivability mechanisms. Because if you survive that crash. guess what you're probably going to survive. If you survive a mishap out in space.
Brian Rushforth: there's no warm, breathable environment for you to go to. You're just simply going to die.
Brian Rushforth: There's no rescue coming.
Brian Rushforth: despite what Armageddon and the other Hollywood movies have.
Brian Rushforth: there is. No, there's no rescue core of space rescue.
Brian Rushforth: You're going to die. It's that simple and I don't think we're I I think we're public opinion plays.
Brian Rushforth: is it? My my concern is is that when we get something and it, and especially if it's like a high profile, you know. I say, Richard Branson, or an Elon Musk, you know, dies, or someone some rich person or famous person dies. Well, guess what then? We're going to get a whole slew of statutes and laws that require us to do all these are rule making to prevent this, and it's like.
Brian Rushforth: you know we can. We can look at it. But
Brian Rushforth: you know I I don't know if we, if if you try to make space at this stage as safe as aviation. You're going to fail. You're going to chunk the industry.
Brian Rushforth: It's it's a risky thing
Brian Rushforth: your your
Brian Verna: it's not like getting on a Bwi, a southwest airlines flight somewhere. Urban engine safety has come a long way since the sixties.
Brian Verna: and it's the safest
Brian Verna: engine you can create. it's a lot different than riding on a controlled explosion. So
Brian Verna: so I don't know how public opinion would.
Brian Verna: We'd ever get to that point. But
Kaylee Swenson: yeah, with these more high profile people such as you and Musk there have been concerns in the past that when Spacex came under scrutiny for such as violating something within their licensing. The Elon musk
Kaylee Swenson: would then turn and tweet about how the Faa was like too restrictive, and I think maybe like said that it was gonna be the reason that humanity never got to Mars very inflammatory language. Would you say that that does have an impact on public opinion from your perspective, or that it's kind of in solar and separate.
Brian Rushforth: like, if you're talking to Elon Musk, he's gonna have an impact on public opinion, no matter what he says and what the public and the public opinion will be both good and bad.
Brian Rushforth: at this stage of the game. not. You know.
Brian Rushforth: billionaires have greater reach.
Brian Rushforth: They they call the White House they call Congress. They call the Secretary. They call the Administrator.
that's just a fact.
Brian Rushforth: that's just a fact. It's but it's no, it's different in scale.
Brian Rushforth: but it's not different in kind
Brian Rushforth: from what the aviation signed faces all the time there's an airport located. There's at least one airport located in every single professional district in the United States.
Brian Rushforth: and that airport gets construction funds or has jobs or
Brian Rushforth: has airlines, an airline service. And you know, there's lots of places that have. You know the Charlotte, the Dallas for worse, you know, Major, you know Atlanta with Delta, Major Hubs and major air carriers, and those Ceos are also very influential.
Brian Rushforth: on stuff. So But in the end we're still, we still gotta do what we gotta do in terms of of public safety.
Brian Rushforth: and you just have to be diplomatic about it. And so what you know. What you have to do as a regulator is, we have certain
Brian Rushforth: rules, and we have certain processes, and where the government as a whole usually gets in trouble is what we don't follow our own stated processes.
if we follow them.
Brian Rushforth: you know, Congress always has the right to change.
Brian Rushforth: change, change the race and change the processes. But we are obligated by law to follow
Brian Rushforth: what is what is published and what is, has been accepted through
Brian Rushforth: the Administrative Procedures Act or through statute.
Brian Rushforth: I mean, that's just what we have to do.
Brian Verna: I can't remember the the number of hits, but I think there was a back and forth between an fa previous official and Elon.
Brian Verna: and it generated like 12,000 unique hits or something on our commercial space website which
Brian Verna: it's an agency record, I think. and it will never be seen again.
Brian Verna: but hopefully. But if you look at that, I mean the Space company, CEO generating that much interest into what we do.
Brian Verna: That didn't change much.
Brian Verna: because, as Brian said, we stick to our processes.
Brian Verna: the
Brian Verna: that public opinion cannot change. It will not change how our our licensing evaluators evaluate their compliance to the regulations. or it doesn't change our safety regulations because it takes at least of a 5 year process following the Administrative Procedures Act if we wanted to.
Brian Verna: So we can't just willingly change regs because someone thinks it's inconvenient. It' be arbitrary and capricious.
Brian Verna: correct. And
Brian Verna: because someone wants to use
Brian Verna: these big explosive rockets as a test platform to get what they want in the end, it doesn't mean they can skirt the safety regulations of protecting the UN. Involved public.
Brian Verna: We're going to do that time and time again and follow our processes over and over again.
Brian Verna: So I I think, like Brian said.
Brian Verna: It generates a lot of interest, good and bad, but
Brian Verna: that public opinion can't. It doesn't change anything it might put some pressure on. but our top cover our our bosses all the way at the top.
Brian Verna: They will have our engineers backs or our our inspectors backs, 100%.
Brian Verna: We're gonna do what we gotta do. We're gonna follow by the book and our process.
Kaylee Swenson: Okay.
Kaylee Swenson: changing gears a little bit. You mentioned towards the beginning that sometimes the Commercial Space Transportation Department will do like social media campaigns. what is the goal with those?
Brian Rushforth: Well generate. So this is where Stevecom is probably better or or Brian But I'll give you one specific example
Brian Rushforth: of of what we have done or 2 like 2 examples. So we typically generate, there's something on Twitter Facebook, the the Faa page that happens with launches. Or if there's something unique
Brian Rushforth: like a first time launch from a new applicant or a new technology, a new launch vehicle.
Brian Rushforth: you know. We'll we'll put out stuff and we'll work with not only
Brian Rushforth: or you know, the Communications Department, but also the communications and Pr folks of the launch operators as well. So we're not inadvertently crossing past because we are
Brian Rushforth: you know it is an exciting
Brian Rushforth: huh! There we go.
Brian Rushforth: there you go, general public awareness. We also have done stuff on stem for for items. So, for example, we participated with the intergovernmental effort from the White House to do a huge stem, you know I see myself in space, a space stem, specific initial place and space. Your place in space kind of okay. I forget that
Brian Rushforth: we were tiny in terms of what we contributed. I mean, we had Department of education. We had NASA, we had National Science Foundation, we have Smithsonian Dod, I mean, with contributing stuff. But we participated.
Brian Rushforth: and among that participation was a Pr. was a coronated campaign with Twitter and Facebook and and all that with standard Logos. And
Brian Rushforth: you know, hashtags and and that kind of stuff. And that generated, I I have Steve's email on the results of that in terms of the hits and the metrics.
Brian Rushforth: that I could probably forward at some point as to what it was. But you know.
Brian Rushforth: that's that's in a nutshell.
Brian Rushforth: Yeah, thank you.
Kaylee Swenson: Did you have anything to?
Brian Verna: Well, I know we we participated in that the American rocketry challenge. but we did take some
Brian Verna: photos. And one of the photos we did. We used it for our new homepage. So when we do do social, we always link our homepage
Brian Verna: because we want to draw hits and interest there. So we post a lot about jobs.
Brian Verna: I guess we're not under a huge hiring campaign right now, and we've got 28
Brian Verna: positions left to fill by the end of the fiscal year. So as those positions become available to the public, we're going to post social
Brian Verna: because we got to drive people, the best engineers to this. the job posting is put in for them, and we do that through social as well. Linkedin Twitter, Facebook.
Brian Verna: Instagram. And I said, Twitter, I,
Brian Verna: So
Brian Verna: again, we we tag our website.
Brian Verna: And then this, this recent American rocketry challenge, we have a picture on our website there. And it links to our stem efforts on our web page. So.
Kaylee Swenson: yeah, when either your department specifically or the Faa largely is doing those stem pushes and those kind of
Kaylee Swenson: efforts to engage a younger public and garner interest in future careers. Would you say that there is an effort to engage certain demographics? Or is it just kind of blanketed
Kaylee Swenson: like increasing diversity? Or
Brian Rushforth: well, there's different kinds. So like your place in space was was targeted at traditionally
Brian Rushforth:  under represented areas for step
Brian Rushforth: So we will also
Brian Rushforth: but on on things like the American rocketry challenge, the demographic is
Brian Rushforth: kids who are super interested in super competitive about
Brian Rushforth: rockets and model rockets, anyway.
Brian Rushforth: and we'll have a table out at at the event with other faa folks and volunteers and that kind of stuff. So some of it's going where the events are happening. I think there's
Brian Rushforth: there's this spaceport America Cup, or something like that in a month or so, or relatively soon. That's an up, you know. We we operate a table out there.
there's
Brian Rushforth: we' we're currently working, for example, with a Morgan State University, a, you know, historic Black college university to evaluate whether or not we're we are going to support some
Brian Rushforth: logistical, you know. Get some money for the for NASA to do, some to pay for NASA, do some flight system
Brian Rushforth: safety analyses for out of wallops for an experimental rocket. that a team is putting together.
So there is a
Brian Rushforth: you know, there's traditionally been an emphasis on looking at
Brian Rushforth: minorities. Women
Brian Rushforth: other, you know, inner, you know, more inner cities or urban
Brian Rushforth: areas. and
Brian Rushforth: but there's also just a general. But all this stuff especially around the your place in space is publicly available to anyone. to any. I mean, we have. There's a if you go to your place in space and their public stuff. They got all kinds of teacher
Brian Rushforth: materials.
Brian Rushforth: So even though it's quote, targeted, it's available to anybody. And that's why you know, the whole point is that yes, you know, you see the astronauts, and you see the vast majority, or
Brian Rushforth: or white, male or whatever. But you also are seeing more women. Now you're seeing people of color, you're seeing.
Brian Rushforth: you know. So it you know the you have the girls? you know. Yeah, you can be smart math, or whatever.
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah.
Kaylee Swenson: I had a question that was going to follow up on that.
Kaylee Swenson: and I lost it. Oh. do you feel like amongst the public? Different demographics might vary in their public opinion of either your department or the agency as a whole like, do you feel like that varies?
Brian Rushforth: That's an interesting question. Because I don't know. I mean demographics. That's not something that stands out without actually looking at the data
Brian Rushforth: most most kids are not concerned about. you know. Is this NASA, or is this the office of commercial space transportation under the Faa, which is also in the Department of Transportation.
Brian Rushforth: No. One, I mean my own kids. I've worked in the fa since 2,001. My own kids, eyes plays over, and they're adult stuff
Brian Rushforth: stuff. So I'm I'm not sure we're just
Brian Rushforth: even thought of. It's just what's what's thought of as positive is the activity.
Brian Rushforth: It's it's launches. it's new technologies.
Brian Rushforth: It's people participating in really cool things happening
Brian Rushforth: that I think has a positive thing. But as for our individual organization, and you know whether there's whether even people have an opinion per se in the general public. I'm I'm a little skeptical.
Brian Verna: I, personally haven't seen any
Brian Verna: break down demographically, how would they view space in general, let alone our agency in space?
Kaylee Swenson: Okay. So there are some efforts to engage under represented groups, but not necessarily because the public opinion from most groups is any different, just because of an increase in diversity in the workforce.
Brian Rushforth: not just increase in diversity. Well, it's it's not okay. So this is a big Dia stuff. It is not about increasing diversity in the workforce. It's about getting the best workforce we can. And filling
Brian Rushforth: that workforce there is a huge gap. We're going to have an engineers in the future. It's not merely about
Brian Rushforth: diversity for diversity sake it is about is about filling gaps that we know is going to happen in order to keep American companies competitive.
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah, I have heard that now is one of the best times to start working for the government, because an entire generation is starting to retire. So there's a lot more open positions.
Brian Rushforth: We're we're hoping to get to a hundred 50 by the end of the fiscal year. So we're not.
Brian Verna: We are not the organization driving employment to to piggyback on the employment piece. So there's the stem efforts.
Brian Verna: So, talking to a gentleman who works for Brian. That is our stem lead, he he acknowledges when you're talking to high school kids, it's too late. College because it's too like
Brian Verna: they're already on a path, or they're not interested. but it's a middle school and earlier. So we've got to figure out better ways to do that. But going to the employment piece, we have many
Brian Verna: known minority serving institutions internships.
Brian Verna: pipelines, if you will, to our our group.
Brian Verna: So there's the I applied for one for this summer, and unfortunately did not get it. So now I'm focusing on interviews.
Brian Verna: Yeah, I figured they might have just not known what to do with someone at my level. That's fine. There's the brook Owens fellowship
Brian Verna: for women.
Brian Verna: And we have one of those fellows
Brian Verna: working for us right now.
Brian Verna: We have. Oh, gee! What's the other one. There's there's a zag. There's the first class of 16
Brian Verna: kids. They're all It's minority and
Brian Verna: focus. So there's 16 of those candidate our fellows that are graduating from this fellow, this the zag. I think it's through Naka National Air Cares Association like they're sponsoring it. But, Zag, I think it's Eeg This is the first class, I think 2,023. So
Brian Verna: there's 16 there, there's
Brian Verna: there's quite a few intern. Just because when I worked in the aviation side of the fa, I didn't see that much internship stuff going on. But then I come to a group of 100 people where I came from a group of 8,000 people. I go to a group of 100 people, and they have all these interns, and it's great like they're
Brian Verna: getting these kids new ideas, giving them stuff to do. So there's a ton of work in in our area.
Brian Verna: so there's no setting on your hands. But you know, I think there's
Brian Verna: the the employment piece, the pipelines we're building those, and those are getting pretty strong
Brian Verna: over here.
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah.
Brian Rushforth: So, Kaylee, I'm just. I need to do a time check because I do have a hard stop at 3. But I am more than happy
Brian Rushforth: schedule another time to continue. But I just want to give you a you know, a a heads up more than a minute out. that that I'm unfortunately going to have to to drop off. Okay, then I I've gotten most of my need. My last couple of questions is, is there anything I've not asked that you think would accurately or better describe the relationship between your department or agency with the public.
Kaylee Swenson: Anything that we haven't talked about.
Brian Rushforth: It's okay, if that's a no. I worked very hard on the questions to try to ask everything.
Brian Rushforth: So interactions with the public tend to be
Brian Rushforth:  either through the applications, you know, and dealing with.
Brian Rushforth: you know, the people that are the corporations are applying
Brian Rushforth: but in terms of public public it's it's quite frankly been a lot of neat but related, I mean, that was my experience when I was chief of staff at 1 point
Brian Rushforth: all my interactions with the public in general was around environmental stuff and decisions we were making as to whether or not to approve a spaceport license or a particular launch license, or any of that. So like a lot of like a lot of regulatory
Brian Rushforth: areas in the government and the public. it naturally lends to conflict.
When you're talking.
Brian Rushforth: build it. Don't build it permitted. but that's a you know, that's an issue that's not unique in any way, shape or form to us.
Brian Rushforth: it's it's it's endemic across
the Federal Government.
Brian Rushforth: but that's where I where I see the public. That's why I see it most.
Brian Rushforth: I mean when you know we had. you know.
Brian Rushforth: the first manned commercial launch? No one said, Wow, faa. no, it was great jobs. Spacex. Great job, NASA.
Brian Rushforth: You know
Brian Rushforth: it's it's not.
Brian Rushforth: It's not us, I mean the other. The other area, quite frankly, which isn't even our area is, you know, you have to clear out your space. That's your traffic control organization.
Brian Rushforth: Well, airlines don't like having hazard areas that they can't fly through
Brian Rushforth: and they have to go around, and so that generates conflict.
Brian Rushforth: So most most interactions with the public
Brian Rushforth: and the Federal government from a federal government workers perspective in my years here are. Rarely.
Brian Rushforth: rarely do I get any calls to say, Hi, I just want to let you know what a great job you're doing.
Brian Rushforth: If I'm getting a call from the public. It's because there is a problem.
Brian Rushforth: or they believe there is a problem, and they think I can fix it. And it's your problem. And it goes my problem. But it's not. It's not about.
Brian Rushforth: you know. Oh, we're we're really changing positive, you know, we're influencing public opinion. It's just that's the nature of the reality of being in a regulator, and in and in dealing with with the public and and with what our authorities have, and trying to educate them
Brian Rushforth: on what our authorities are and what they are. I was in. I was on the aviation side, too, and I was. I was a regulator for the airport.
Brian Rushforth: and I would regularly get random calls from the public. I don't know why the switchboards gave them to me, but we need to remove the aluminum cans off of planes. Because the terrorists with superhuman strength. They're going to rip them apart and cut everyone's throat.
Brian Rushforth:  you know. Why? Is my son's airplane on the tarmac in Boston when he's got a connecting flight to Australia. And La is going to miss
Kaylee Swenson: yeah stuff that you personally are not going to be able to.
Brian Rushforth: So it's it's it's you don't become a regulator to. If if you really have a burning need to get positive affirmation from from strangers.
Kaylee Swenson: And then my last question is, just, is there anyone else you would recommend that I talk to about these types of topics?
Brian Rushforth: Steve? So Brian gave a you know, a really nice general thing from Steve. But if you really want to get into the Pr. Piece, and you know how the Faa as a whole, and what as T as a commercial space
Brian Rushforth: as a whole does in terms of a generic public outreach. You're, you know, using the metrics and using all this other stuff. He's probably the guy
Brian Rushforth: you want to talk to. as a communications professional.
Kaylee Swenson: Okay?
Kaylee Swenson: Okay? And then, Mr. Grant. Is it okay? If I reach out to him directly, I want to ask your permission for us, because you're the reason that I even know he exists, so I don't want to go around you and
Kaylee Swenson: harass him, or anything about an interview.
Brian Verna: he I don't. I think he just kind of wanted to decline. And he just wanted to sum up his comments with that basic
Brian Verna: statement.
Kaylee Swenson: well, I've definitely gotten a lot of information from you guys. and it's been a great insight into what it looks like to
Kaylee Swenson: be in this specific department and under the shadow of NASA and alongside the Faa, and there perfect pristine standard of safety
Brian Rushforth: let me give you. Here's another thing that just just in terms of setting the stage. NASA has its own studio.
Brian Rushforth: Yeah, they have their own TV channel
Brian Rushforth: and Pr.
Brian Rushforth: and why wouldn't they?
Brian Rushforth: My, when they they they're the good news people.
Brian Rushforth: right? If the Faa gets involved in something, or you know, it's it's typically we're putting regulations out or restricting, or you know. But it's it's not usually, or something crashed, or whatever
Brian Rushforth: you know. But, NASA, you know NASA's.
Brian Rushforth: you know, kudos to them. They know what they're doing in terms of Pr, and they're there's they're not regulated their explorers. They're they. They push the envelope for stuff. They do really cool things.
Brian Rushforth: Yeah, would you say that difference is primarily because you guys are regulation versus NASA's more exploratory
Brian Rushforth: and more. They're more visible.
Brian Rushforth: I I mean, you don't get a lot of news. You get her newspaper articles around Cassini, around voyager around the Mars Rover. Oh, look what the Mars were over there! Oh, here's a new Hubble telescope thing, isn't it gorgeous?
Brian Rushforth: And so every time there's a new picture, or some new thing. It hits the newspapers. You don't get that. Well.
Brian Rushforth: we approve 4 licenses
Brian Rushforth: and issued letters, so, allowing them to do operations. That's not sexy.
Brian Rushforth: It's absolutely required from a safety perspective. But it's not sexy. And it's not something that lends itself to. Wow. We should really put out a press release.
Kaylee Swenson: you know.
Kaylee Swenson: Okay, well, thank you so much. I know that we're running out of time to either. Do you have any questions for me?
Kaylee Swenson: Yeah, thank you so much for your time. If at any point you have any questions relating to what I'm going to be doing with this information, or how it's moving forward. Please feel free to email me and if I ever publish anything using your name or a quote from you, I'll make sure to send it to you before it is published, so that you can at that point retract your consent if you so, if
Brian Rushforth: we appreciate that as a person who is who's
Kaylee Swenson: Had 2 separate emails spliced together into one quote on 2 separate topics. So by by a member of the press, I I appreciate that. Yeah. Now, in Academia we're striving for accuracy. Not as much the flashy expose type. So okay, thank you both so much for your time. Thank you so much. Bye, bye.